# augmented reality (ar)

the problem with ar/vr/mr (xr) today is that the focus is on some sort of metaverse type experience linked to gaming, in other words, xr headsets are a linkage to some virtual sort of 3d world, while that has interesting possibilities, the real and immediate opportunity which should not be forsaken is to first replace laptops/desktops and mobile phones.  many companies are foregoing this trying to go after the 3d world, trying to hit a grand slam when the bases aren't even loaded yet.  while the future is most certainly a more immersive 3d, virtual world, there are many aspects that are not being fundamentally solved where the emergence of technology in this space will be critical to further develop the landscape of the xr market. 

mobile phones and laptops provide a 2d type experience, you look at a screen, some of the contents on the screen maybe 3d, but this is not full immersion, you are not able to percieve the physical and meta world melding, turning your head to the side translates into nothing, you essentially need to control the experience with input via a virtual keyboard or virtual control embedded on the screen like a virtual joystick.  there are libraries that allow you to use the gyroscope on mobile phones that let you manipulate the view with 3d movement like pokemon go, but this is not the common interacton method, mostly you click on buttons/links embedded on the display or use the virtual keyboard.  viewing this type of experience is what i would call a 2.5d experience.  while the 2d display can show you depth, it is limited in size.  that is where 3d glasses play an important role, thru manipulation of what gets presented to the eyes, there can now be a more immersive experience, a larger screen than what a mobile phone or laptop can show and it's not constrained to some physical piece of hardware like a computer monitor, laptop display, or mobile phone screen.  the problem is that showing this information resolves only the first aspect, which is an important area, but being able to manipulate and interact with this world, this is where i think solutions today fall short.  think of the interfaces tom cruise used in minority report and the ones the major used in ghost in the shell, this is the next level of problems that needs to be solved, interactivity, being able to manipulate the view.  i think in this sort of environment, there needs to be more simplistic means of controlling the view such as with touch and voice.  having to type on a physical keyboard is too limiting as this would make this solution immobile, a virutal keyboard requires cameras to view location of fingers in relation to a virtual keyboard, this has been solved by adding outward facing cameras and sensors to glasses, but this has privacy issues and also makes the glasses hardware that much more cumbersome and power consuming.

voice control is an interesting area where i think there has been limited innovation.  apple created siri, but how many people actually rely on siri for their daily work?  amazon alexa has made its way into many homes, but my alexa basically collects dust in some box, unplugged after this many years.  some of the hands free features of android auto leverage voice, but i find myself still having to type in address details on a virtual keyboard.  so voice control is still relatively under-utilized and not a mainstream control method.

should this be the job of the glasses, or should the glasses simply be constrained to solving view issues, which is already a hard enough problem where more innovation and disruption are needed.  if xr glasses are constrained to solving the view problem then this could simplify design issues faced by many glasses companies today in trying to create smaller form factors, yet many have required the need for direct usb connection to phones or computers.

should xr glasses be the next generation of monitors, monitors currently are connected to desktop machines, the focus of the monitor is to provide high resolution display, that gets driven by a graphics processing unit along with a central processing unit that are separate from the display.  that would leave the need for some sort of device that could power the graphics and pass that onto the view device, and do that without being constrained to a cable.  there are challenges here for sure since none of the gpu's today connect to a display device via a wireless means, hdmi 2.1 and display port offer high bandwidth and use high speed physical interconnects like pci-express to pass data to the cpu.  bluetooth cannot handle this kind of bandwidth, and network latency may cause issues with an xr like experience.  but xr glasses are not providing high resolution at the moment, something surely that needs to be addressed, but the wireless issue remains, in order for true portability, the view device cannot connect to the compute device via some short length cable.

what if the interactivity portion is the focus of yet another breed of companies?
